
Le Mooc Pharo est en accès libre sur le Web.
Les seuls témoignages dont nous dispons sont ceux envoyés par email ou directement renseignés sur les forums ce qui explique que nous n'avons généralement pas les noms et coordonnées des auteurs mais uniquement un pseudonyme (cf. http://mooc.pharo.org/ Testimonies)

This Mooc is demanding but rewarding - check below what the participants are saying :) Thank you for these messages, they boost us! I just completed the @pharoproject Mooc the best investment I have ever made of my time. MAQBOOL 

 Hi! I finished the MOOC some weeks ago and I would like to congratulate everybody involved! After a decade+ of Python programming I think I found my new favorite language :). I'm making a small Teapot server for Slack command bots, I'm goona push it to Github (yay Iceberg), if anyone is interested.
EduardoPadoan

Tieryn - Today at 1:58 PM 
Hey all - I've just finished the Mooc - thanks for an excellent course and a thouroughly interesting look at a new way to program :smile: Looking forward to starting to play with Pharo on some upcoming ideas I've had.

rogersm - Last Thursday at 5:21 PM
Well, I just finished the MOOC!:ok_hand: Great experience!

I finished the Pharo MOOC a few days ago. Thank you very much to Damien, Stephane, and Luc for their work on the material! I enjoyed it very much

Hey, I've just finished the Mooc. It's awesome. I'm sending you the typos or minor issues I've noticed throughout the mooc. Additionally, there must be a bug in the scoring algorithm, since I got >100% even though I failed some quizs.

Hey all - I've just finished the Mooc - thanks for an excellent course and a thouroughly interesting look at a new way to program :smile: Looking forward to starting to play with Pharo on some upcoming ideas I've had 👌3

« Really one of the best mooc I have ever attended. And I have attended quite a few (openSAP, openHPI). As an old fashioned ABAP developer I want to be reborn as Pharo developer in my next life :-) »

I already had previous Smalltalk experience, but yes, I'm extremely happy Chapter 7 has been extremely fulfilling

A general comment I wanted to make is that the MOOC so far has been great. Impressed with the quality and content, and grateful that it is available and free. Many thanks! Aryeh

IMHO the videos were very well done. I would even say shockingly well done… for a bunch of programmers who are supposed to be clueless about design SeanDeNigris - 
10/26/2017

The more I learning about @pharoproject the more I appreciate it's beauty and simplicity, finally, object-oriented programming is done right MAQBOOL

Mooc absolument remarquable. Superbe voyage autour de Pharo. Le paradigme objet qui (re)prend enfin du sens ! - Anonymous - 01/03/2019
